README.md, before:

# About google-ngrams-2020Updated#

Here you'll find a basic python script to retrieve data behind the trajectories plotted on the [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams). A Python script that creates [XKCD](http://www.xkcd.com) style plots from the ngram CSV data is also included, making it simple to create some awesome looking plots!

**This is an updated version of [Matt Nicklay's google-ngrams](https://github.com/econpy/google-ngrams).** 

In this version, latest corpus set released in 2019 is included and some adaption to the responses from [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams), which has been changed recently, is implemented. Pull request has been sent but it seems that the repository has not been updated by the contributors for 6 years. Therefore, I hope this temporary repository can resolve someone's problems, which was also encountered by me.

# Dependencies

* [matplotlib](http://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib) >= 1.3.1
* [pandas](http://github.com/pydata/pandas)
* [requests](http://github.com/kennethreitz/requests)


# Usage #

Simply type the same query you would type at the [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams) and retrieve the data in csv format.

<img src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/ngramplots/xkcd_demo3.png" height="315" width="420" align="left">

#### Quick Gotchas ####

 * By default, the data is printed on screen and saved to a file in the working directory.
 * Add the `-plot` option to your query and an XKCD style plot like the one to the left will be saved in the working directory as well.
 * Searches are case-sensitive by default. To perform case-insenitive searches, pass the `-caseInsensitive` option to your query. The result will be the sum of all common formats of the query (lowercase, uppercase, titlecase, etc).
 * The syntax for [modifier](#modifier-searches) and [wildcard](#wildcard-searches) searches has been slightly modified in order to make the script work as a command line tool. See [below](#more-complicated-examples) for more information on these minor changes.


### Options ###
  * **corpus** [default: eng_2012] *This will run the query in CORPUS. Possible values are recapitulated below and [here](http://books.google.com/ngrams/info).*
  * **startYear** [default: 1800]
  * **endYear** [default: 2000]
  * **smoothing** [default: 3] *Smoothing parameter (integer)*
  * **caseInsensitive** *Return case-insensitive results*
  * **plot** *Return an XKCD style plot as a .png file*
  * **alldata** *Return every column of available data***
  * **nosave** *Results will not be saved to file*
  * **noprint** *Results will not be printed on screen*
  * **help** *Prints this screen*

\*\* This can be used with inflection, wildcard, and case-insensitive searches (otherwise it does nothing) where one column is the sum of some of the other columns (labeled with a column name ending in "(All)" or an asterisk for wildcard searches). In the [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams), the columns whose sum makes up this column is viewable by right clicking on the ngram plot. In the `getngrams.py` script, these columns are dropped by default, but you can keep them by adding `-alldata` to your query.

# Examples #

There are tons of examples below that demonstrate of all kinds of available queries.

### Basic Examples ###

Here are some basic example uses of `getngrams.py`:

```
python getngrams.py Albert Einstein, Charles Darwin
python getngrams.py aluminum, copper, steel -noprint
python getngrams.py Pearl Harbor, Watergate -corpus=eng_2009
python getngrams.py bells and whistles -startYear=1900 -endYear=2001 -smoothing=2
python getngrams.py internet --startYear=1980 --endYear=2000 --corpus=eng_2012 -caseInsensitive
```

### More Complicated Examples ###

##### Wildcard Searches #####

As in the full [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams), you can also perform wildcard searches using `getngrams.py`.

When doing a wildcard search, use the `?` character instead of the `*` character. Using an asterisk will cause the `getngrams.py` script to fail because your shell will expand the asterisk before Python has a chance to see it.

```
python getngrams.py United ? --startYear=1850 --endYear=2000 -alldata
python getngrams.py University of ?
python getngrams.py University of ?, ? State University -alldata
```

##### Modifier Searches #####

Modifier searches let you see how often one more modifies another word. The usual syntax for doing a modifier search is by using the `=>` operator. For example, running the query `dessert=>tasty` would match all instances of when the word *tasty* was used to modify the word *dessert*.

Modifier searches can be done using `getngrams.py`, but you must replace the `=>` operator with the `@` character.

```
python getngrams.py car@fast -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000
python getngrams.py car@fast -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -alldata
python getngrams.py drink@?_NOUN -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -alldata
```

For more information on wildcard and modifier searches, take a look at the [About Ngram Viewer](https://books.google.com/ngrams/info) page for more in depth documentation.

##### Other Examples #####

```
python getngrams.py book ? hotel, book_INF a hotel --startYear=1920 --endYear=2000 -alldata
python getngrams.py read ?_DET book
python getngrams.py _DET_ bright_ADJ rainbow
python getngrams.py _START_ President ?_NOUN
python getngrams.py _ROOT_@will
```

##### Possible Corpora #####

```
eng_2012, eng_2009, eng_us_2012, eng_us_2009, eng_gb_2012, eng_gb_2009, chi_sim_2012, chi_sim_2009, fre_2012,
fre_2009, ger_2012, ger_2009, spa_2012, spa_2009, rus_2012, rus_2009, heb_2012, heb_2009, ita_2012,
eng_fiction_2012, eng_fiction_2009, eng_1m_2009
```

## Plotting ##

There are 2 easy ways to create your own plots using a CSV file produced by running a query with `getngrams.py`. To demonstrate the 2 methods, we'll run the following query:

```bash
python getngrams.py railroad,radio,television,internet -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -caseInsensitive
```

### Plotting w/ xkcd.py ###

The first way to create a plot is to use the supplied `xkcd.py` script to generate awesome [XKCD](http://www.xkcd.com) style charts. However, there are two ways to use the script:

  1. Add the `-plot` option to your command when running `getngrams.py`:

  ```bash
  python getngrams.py railroad,radio,television,internet -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -plot -caseInsensitive
  ```

  2. You can also use `xkcd.py` directly by passing the CSV file as an argument:

  ```bash
  python xkcd.py railroad_radio_television_internet-eng_2012-1900-2000-3-caseInsensitive.csv
  ```

Both methods produce the same chart:

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ngramplots/xkcd_example.png)


### Plotting w/ Pandas ###

Another way to plot data from an ngram CSV file is to read the file into a pandas DataFrame object and call the .plot() option on it. Here we do that, but also convert the data to percentages first and add a title to the plot:

```python
from pandas import read_csv
df = read_csv('railroad_radio_television_internet-eng_2012-1900-2000-3-caseInsensitive.csv',
              index_col=0,
              parse_dates=True)
for col in df.columns:
    df[col] = [i*100 for i in df[col]]
df.plot(title='Railroad, Radio, Television, and Internet')
```

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ngramplots/pandas_simple.png)

### License ###
MIT License

Moreover, PLEASE do respect the terms of service of the Google Ngram Viewer while using this code. This code is meant to help viewers retrieve data behind a few queries, not bang at Google's servers with thousands of queries. The complete dataset can be freely downloaded [here](http://storage.googleapis.com/books/ngrams/books/datasetsv2.html). This code is not a Google product and is not endorsed by Google in any way.

With this in mind... happy plotting!

Commit message:

support a large number of queries

README.md, after:

# About google-ngrams-2020Updated#

Here you'll find a basic python script to retrieve data behind the trajectories plotted on the [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams). A Python script that creates [XKCD](http://www.xkcd.com) style plots from the ngram CSV data is also included, making it simple to create some awesome looking plots!

**This is an updated version of [Matt Nicklay's google-ngrams](https://github.com/econpy/google-ngrams).** 

In this version, latest corpus set released in 2019 is included, a large number of queries are supported, and some adaption to the responses from [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams), which has been changed recently, is implemented. Pull request has been sent but it seems that the repository has not been updated by the contributors for 6 years. Therefore, I hope this temporary repository can resolve someone's problems, which was also encountered by me.

# Dependencies

* [matplotlib](http://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib) >= 1.3.1
* [pandas](http://github.com/pydata/pandas)
* [requests](http://github.com/kennethreitz/requests)


# Usage #

Simply type the same query you would type at the [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams) and retrieve the data in csv format.

<img src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/ngramplots/xkcd_demo3.png" height="315" width="420" align="left">

#### Quick Gotchas ####

 * By default, the data is printed on screen and saved to a file in the working directory.
 * Add the `-plot` option to your query and an XKCD style plot like the one to the left will be saved in the working directory as well.
 * Searches are case-sensitive by default. To perform case-insenitive searches, pass the `-caseInsensitive` option to your query. The result will be the sum of all common formats of the query (lowercase, uppercase, titlecase, etc).
 * The syntax for [modifier](#modifier-searches) and [wildcard](#wildcard-searches) searches has been slightly modified in order to make the script work as a command line tool. See [below](#more-complicated-examples) for more information on these minor changes.


### Options ###
  * **corpus** [default: eng_2012] *This will run the query in CORPUS. Possible values are recapitulated below and [here](http://books.google.com/ngrams/info).*
  * **startYear** [default: 1800]
  * **endYear** [default: 2000]
  * **smoothing** [default: 3] *Smoothing parameter (integer)*
  * **caseInsensitive** *Return case-insensitive results*
  * **plot** *Return an XKCD style plot as a .png file*
  * **alldata** *Return every column of available data***
  * **nosave** *Results will not be saved to file*
  * **noprint** *Results will not be printed on screen*
  * **help** *Prints this screen*

\*\* This can be used with inflection, wildcard, and case-insensitive searches (otherwise it does nothing) where one column is the sum of some of the other columns (labeled with a column name ending in "(All)" or an asterisk for wildcard searches). In the [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams), the columns whose sum makes up this column is viewable by right clicking on the ngram plot. In the `getngrams.py` script, these columns are dropped by default, but you can keep them by adding `-alldata` to your query.

# Examples #

There are tons of examples below that demonstrate of all kinds of available queries.

### Basic Examples ###

Here are some basic example uses of `getngrams.py`:

```
python getngrams.py Albert Einstein, Charles Darwin
python getngrams.py aluminum, copper, steel -noprint
python getngrams.py Pearl Harbor, Watergate -corpus=eng_2009
python getngrams.py bells and whistles -startYear=1900 -endYear=2001 -smoothing=2
python getngrams.py internet --startYear=1980 --endYear=2000 --corpus=eng_2012 -caseInsensitive
```

### More Complicated Examples ###

##### Wildcard Searches #####

As in the full [Google Ngram Viewer](http://books.google.com/ngrams), you can also perform wildcard searches using `getngrams.py`.

When doing a wildcard search, use the `?` character instead of the `*` character. Using an asterisk will cause the `getngrams.py` script to fail because your shell will expand the asterisk before Python has a chance to see it.

```
python getngrams.py United ? --startYear=1850 --endYear=2000 -alldata
python getngrams.py University of ?
python getngrams.py University of ?, ? State University -alldata
```

##### Modifier Searches #####

Modifier searches let you see how often one more modifies another word. The usual syntax for doing a modifier search is by using the `=>` operator. For example, running the query `dessert=>tasty` would match all instances of when the word *tasty* was used to modify the word *dessert*.

Modifier searches can be done using `getngrams.py`, but you must replace the `=>` operator with the `@` character.

```
python getngrams.py car@fast -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000
python getngrams.py car@fast -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -alldata
python getngrams.py drink@?_NOUN -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -alldata
```

For more information on wildcard and modifier searches, take a look at the [About Ngram Viewer](https://books.google.com/ngrams/info) page for more in depth documentation.

##### Other Examples #####

```
python getngrams.py book ? hotel, book_INF a hotel --startYear=1920 --endYear=2000 -alldata
python getngrams.py read ?_DET book
python getngrams.py _DET_ bright_ADJ rainbow
python getngrams.py _START_ President ?_NOUN
python getngrams.py _ROOT_@will
```

##### Possible Corpora #####

```
eng_2012, eng_2009, eng_us_2012, eng_us_2009, eng_gb_2012, eng_gb_2009, chi_sim_2012, chi_sim_2009, fre_2012,
fre_2009, ger_2012, ger_2009, spa_2012, spa_2009, rus_2012, rus_2009, heb_2012, heb_2009, ita_2012,
eng_fiction_2012, eng_fiction_2009, eng_1m_2009
```

## Plotting ##

There are 2 easy ways to create your own plots using a CSV file produced by running a query with `getngrams.py`. To demonstrate the 2 methods, we'll run the following query:

```bash
python getngrams.py railroad,radio,television,internet -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -caseInsensitive
```

### Plotting w/ xkcd.py ###

The first way to create a plot is to use the supplied `xkcd.py` script to generate awesome [XKCD](http://www.xkcd.com) style charts. However, there are two ways to use the script:

  1. Add the `-plot` option to your command when running `getngrams.py`:

  ```bash
  python getngrams.py railroad,radio,television,internet -startYear=1900 -endYear=2000 -plot -caseInsensitive
  ```

  2. You can also use `xkcd.py` directly by passing the CSV file as an argument:

  ```bash
  python xkcd.py railroad_radio_television_internet-eng_2012-1900-2000-3-caseInsensitive.csv
  ```

Both methods produce the same chart:

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ngramplots/xkcd_example.png)


### Plotting w/ Pandas ###

Another way to plot data from an ngram CSV file is to read the file into a pandas DataFrame object and call the .plot() option on it. Here we do that, but also convert the data to percentages first and add a title to the plot:

```python
from pandas import read_csv
df = read_csv('railroad_radio_television_internet-eng_2012-1900-2000-3-caseInsensitive.csv',
              index_col=0,
              parse_dates=True)
for col in df.columns:
    df[col] = [i*100 for i in df[col]]
df.plot(title='Railroad, Radio, Television, and Internet')
```

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ngramplots/pandas_simple.png)

### License ###
MIT License

Moreover, PLEASE do respect the terms of service of the Google Ngram Viewer while using this code. This code is meant to help viewers retrieve data behind a few queries, not bang at Google's servers with thousands of queries. The complete dataset can be freely downloaded [here](http://storage.googleapis.com/books/ngrams/books/datasetsv2.html). This code is not a Google product and is not endorsed by Google in any way.

With this in mind... happy plotting!
